README.md, before:

# `node-gyp` - Node.js native addon build tool

[![Build Status](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/workflows/Tests/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/actions?query=workflow%3ATests+branch%3Amaster)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/node-gyp)

`node-gyp` is a cross-platform command-line tool written in Node.js for
compiling native addon modules for Node.js. It contains a vendored copy of the
[gyp-next](https://github.com/nodejs/gyp-next) project that was previously used
by the Chromium team, extended to support the development of Node.js native addons.

Note that `node-gyp` is _not_ used to build Node.js itself.

Multiple target versions of Node.js are supported (i.e. `0.8`, ..., `4`, `5`, `6`,
etc.), regardless of what version of Node.js is actually installed on your system
(`node-gyp` downloads the necessary development files or headers for the target version).

## Features

 * The same build commands work on any of the supported platforms
 * Supports the targeting of different versions of Node.js

## Installation

You can install `node-gyp` using `npm`:

``` bash
npm install -g node-gyp
```

Depending on your operating system, you will need to install:

### On Unix

   * Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
   * `make`
   * A proper C/C++ compiler toolchain, like [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org)

### On macOS

**ATTENTION**: If your Mac has been _upgraded_ to macOS Catalina (10.15) or higher, please read [macOS_Catalina.md](macOS_Catalina.md).

   * Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
   * `XCode Command Line Tools` which will install `clang`, `clang++`, and `make`.
     * Install the `XCode Command Line Tools` standalone by running `xcode-select --install`. -- OR --
     * Alternatively, if you already have the [full Xcode installed](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/download/), you can install the Command Line Tools under the menu `Xcode -> Open Developer Tool -> More Developer Tools...`.


### On Windows

Install the current version of Python from the [Microsoft Store package](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/python-310/9pjpw5ldxlz5).

Install tools and configuration manually:
   * Install Visual C++ Build Environment: [Visual Studio Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=BuildTools)
   (using "Visual C++ build tools" if using a version older than VS2019, otherwise use "Desktop development with C++" workload) or [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community)
   (using the "Desktop development with C++" workload)

   If the above steps didn't work for you, please visit [Microsoft's Node.js Guidelines for Windows](https://github.com/Microsoft/nodejs-guidelines/blob/master/windows-environment.md#compiling-native-addon-modules) for additional tips.

   To target native ARM64 Node.js on Windows on ARM, add the components "Visual C++ compilers and libraries for ARM64" and "Visual C++ ATL for ARM64".

   To use the native ARM64 C++ compiler on Windows on ARM, ensure that you have Visual Studio 2022 [17.4 or later](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/arm64-visual-studio-is-officially-here/) installed.

### Configuring Python Dependency

`node-gyp` requires that you have installed a compatible version of Python, one of: v3.7, v3.8,
v3.9, or v3.10. If you have multiple Python versions installed, you can identify which Python
version `node-gyp` should use in one of the following ways:

1. by setting the `--python` command-line option, e.g.:

``` bash
node-gyp <command> --python /path/to/executable/python
```

2. If `node-gyp` is called by way of `npm`, *and* you have multiple versions of
Python installed, then you can set `npm`'s 'python' config key to the appropriate
value:

``` bash
npm config set python /path/to/executable/python
```

3. If the `PYTHON` environment variable is set to the path of a Python executable,
then that version will be used, if it is a compatible version.

4. If the `NODE_GYP_FORCE_PYTHON` environment variable is set to the path of a
Python executable, it will be used instead of any of the other configured or
builtin Python search paths. If it's not a compatible version, no further
searching will be done.

### Build for Third Party Node.js Runtimes

When building modules for third party Node.js runtimes like Electron, which have
different build configurations from the official Node.js distribution, you
should use `--dist-url` or `--nodedir` flags to specify the headers of the
runtime to build for.

Also when `--dist-url` or `--nodedir` flags are passed, node-gyp will use the
`config.gypi` shipped in the headers distribution to generate build
configurations, which is different from the default mode that would use the
`process.config` object of the running Node.js instance.

Some old versions of Electron shipped malformed `config.gypi` in their headers
distributions, and you might need to pass `--force-process-config` to node-gyp
to work around configuration errors.

## How to Use

To compile your native addon, first go to its root directory:

``` bash
cd my_node_addon
```

The next step is to generate the appropriate project build files for the current
platform. Use `configure` for that:

``` bash
node-gyp configure
```

Auto-detection fails for Visual C++ Build Tools 2015, so `--msvs_version=2015`
needs to be added (not needed when run by npm as configured above):
``` bash
node-gyp configure --msvs_version=2015
```

__Note__: The `configure` step looks for a `binding.gyp` file in the current
directory to process. See below for instructions on creating a `binding.gyp` file.

Now you will have either a `Makefile` (on Unix platforms) or a `vcxproj` file
(on Windows) in the `build/` directory. Next, invoke the `build` command:

``` bash
node-gyp build
```

Now you have your compiled `.node` bindings file! The compiled bindings end up
in `build/Debug/` or `build/Release/`, depending on the build mode. At this point,
you can require the `.node` file with Node.js and run your tests!

__Note:__ To create a _Debug_ build of the bindings file, pass the `--debug` (or
`-d`) switch when running either the `configure`, `build` or `rebuild` commands.

## The `binding.gyp` file

A `binding.gyp` file describes the configuration to build your module, in a
JSON-like format. This file gets placed in the root of your package, alongside
`package.json`.

A barebones `gyp` file appropriate for building a Node.js addon could look like:

```python
{
  "targets": [
    {
      "target_name": "binding",
      "sources": [ "src/binding.cc" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Further reading

The **[docs](./docs/)** directory contains additional documentation on specific node-gyp topics that may be useful if you are experiencing problems installing or building addons using node-gyp.

Some additional resources for Node.js native addons and writing `gyp` configuration files:

 * ["Going Native" a nodeschool.io tutorial](http://nodeschool.io/#goingnative)
 * ["Hello World" node addon example](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/test/addons/hello-world)
 * [gyp user documentation](https://gyp.gsrc.io/docs/UserDocumentation.md)
 * [gyp input format reference](https://gyp.gsrc.io/docs/InputFormatReference.md)
 * [*"binding.gyp" files out in the wild* wiki page](./docs/binding.gyp-files-in-the-wild.md)

## Commands

`node-gyp` responds to the following commands:

| **Command**   | **Description**
|:--------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------
| `help`        | Shows the help dialog
| `build`       | Invokes `make`/`msbuild.exe` and builds the native addon
| `clean`       | Removes the `build` directory if it exists
| `configure`   | Generates project build files for the current platform
| `rebuild`     | Runs `clean`, `configure` and `build` all in a row
| `install`     | Installs Node.js header files for the given version
| `list`        | Lists the currently installed Node.js header versions
| `remove`      | Removes the Node.js header files for the given version


## Command Options

`node-gyp` accepts the following command options:

| **Command**                       | **Description**
|:----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------
| `-j n`, `--jobs n`                | Run `make` in parallel. The value `max` will use all available CPU cores
| `--target=v6.2.1`                 | Node.js version to build for (default is `process.version`)
| `--silly`, `--loglevel=silly`     | Log all progress to console
| `--verbose`, `--loglevel=verbose` | Log most progress to console
| `--silent`, `--loglevel=silent`   | Don't log anything to console
| `debug`, `--debug`                | Make Debug build (default is `Release`)
| `--release`, `--no-debug`         | Make Release build
| `-C $dir`, `--directory=$dir`     | Run command in different directory
| `--make=$make`                    | Override `make` command (e.g. `gmake`)
| `--thin=yes`                      | Enable thin static libraries
| `--arch=$arch`                    | Set target architecture (e.g. ia32)
| `--tarball=$path`                 | Get headers from a local tarball
| `--devdir=$path`                  | SDK download directory (default is OS cache directory)
| `--ensure`                        | Don't reinstall headers if already present
| `--dist-url=$url`                 | Download header tarball from custom URL
| `--proxy=$url`                    | Set HTTP(S) proxy for downloading header tarball
| `--noproxy=$urls`                 | Set urls to ignore proxies when downloading header tarball
| `--cafile=$cafile`                | Override default CA chain (to download tarball)
| `--nodedir=$path`                 | Set the path to the node source code
| `--python=$path`                  | Set path to the Python binary
| `--msvs_version=$version`         | Set Visual Studio version (Windows only)
| `--solution=$solution`            | Set Visual Studio Solution version (Windows only)
| `--force-process-config`          | Force using runtime's `process.config` object to generate `config.gypi` file

## Configuration

### Environment variables

Use the form `npm_config_OPTION_NAME` for any of the command options listed
above (dashes in option names should be replaced by underscores).

For example, to set `devdir` equal to `/tmp/.gyp`, you would:

Run this on Unix:

```bash
export npm_config_devdir=/tmp/.gyp
```

Or this on Windows:

```console
set npm_config_devdir=c:\temp\.gyp
```

### `npm` configuration

Use the form `OPTION_NAME` for any of the command options listed above.

For example, to set `devdir` equal to `/tmp/.gyp`, you would run:

```bash
npm config set [--global] devdir /tmp/.gyp
```

**Note:** Configuration set via `npm` will only be used when `node-gyp`
is run via `npm`, not when `node-gyp` is run directly.

## License

`node-gyp` is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE
file](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

docs: README.md Do not hardcode the supported versions of Python
Python 3.7 went end-of-life this week.

README.md, after:

# `node-gyp` - Node.js native addon build tool

[![Build Status](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/workflows/Tests/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/actions?query=workflow%3ATests+branch%3Amaster)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/node-gyp)

`node-gyp` is a cross-platform command-line tool written in Node.js for
compiling native addon modules for Node.js. It contains a vendored copy of the
[gyp-next](https://github.com/nodejs/gyp-next) project that was previously used
by the Chromium team and extended to support the development of Node.js native
addons.

Note that `node-gyp` is _not_ used to build Node.js itself.

Multiple target versions of Node.js are supported (i.e. `0.8`, ..., `4`, `5`, `6`,
etc.), regardless of what version of Node.js is actually installed on your system
(`node-gyp` downloads the necessary development files or headers for the target version).

## Features

 * The same build commands work on any of the supported platforms
 * Supports the targeting of different versions of Node.js

## Installation

You can install `node-gyp` using `npm`:

``` bash
npm install -g node-gyp
```

Depending on your operating system, you will need to install:

### On Unix

   * [A supported version of Python](https://devguide.python.org/versions/)
   * `make`
   * A proper C/C++ compiler toolchain, like [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org)

### On macOS

   * [A supported version of Python](https://devguide.python.org/versions/)
   * `XCode Command Line Tools` which will install `clang`, `clang++`, and `make`.
     * Install the `XCode Command Line Tools` standalone by running `xcode-select --install`. -- OR --
     * Alternatively, if you already have the [full Xcode installed](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/download/), you can install the Command Line Tools under the menu `Xcode -> Open Developer Tool -> More Developer Tools...`.


### On Windows

Install the current [version of Python](https://devguide.python.org/versions/) from the
[Microsoft Store package](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/search/python).

Install tools and configuration manually:
   * Install Visual C++ Build Environment: [Visual Studio Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=BuildTools)
   (using "Visual C++ build tools" if using a version older than VS2019, otherwise use "Desktop development with C++" workload) or [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community)
   (using the "Desktop development with C++" workload)

   If the above steps didn't work for you, please visit [Microsoft's Node.js Guidelines for Windows](https://github.com/Microsoft/nodejs-guidelines/blob/master/windows-environment.md#compiling-native-addon-modules) for additional tips.

   To target native ARM64 Node.js on Windows on ARM, add the components "Visual C++ compilers and libraries for ARM64" and "Visual C++ ATL for ARM64".

   To use the native ARM64 C++ compiler on Windows on ARM, ensure that you have Visual Studio 2022 [17.4 or later](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/arm64-visual-studio-is-officially-here/) installed.

### Configuring Python Dependency

`node-gyp` requires that you have installed a [supported version of Python](https://devguide.python.org/versions/).
If you have multiple versions of Python installed, you can identify which version
`node-gyp` should use in one of the following ways:

1. by setting the `--python` command-line option, e.g.:

``` bash
node-gyp <command> --python /path/to/executable/python
```

2. If `node-gyp` is called by way of `npm`, *and* you have multiple versions of
Python installed, then you can set the `npm_config_python` environment variable
to the appropriate path:
``` bash
export npm_config_python=/path/to/executable/python
```
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Or on Windows:
```console
py --list-paths  # To see the installed Python versions
set npm_config_python=C:\path\to\python.exe
```

3. If the `PYTHON` environment variable is set to the path of a Python executable,
then that version will be used if it is a supported version.

4. If the `NODE_GYP_FORCE_PYTHON` environment variable is set to the path of a
Python executable, it will be used instead of any of the other configured or
built-in Python search paths. If it's not a compatible version, no further
searching will be done.

### Build for Third Party Node.js Runtimes

When building modules for third-party Node.js runtimes like Electron, which have
different build configurations from the official Node.js distribution, you
should use `--dist-url` or `--nodedir` flags to specify the headers of the
runtime to build for.

Also when `--dist-url` or `--nodedir` flags are passed, node-gyp will use the
`config.gypi` shipped in the headers distribution to generate build
configurations, which is different from the default mode that would use the
`process.config` object of the running Node.js instance.

Some old versions of Electron shipped malformed `config.gypi` in their headers
distributions, and you might need to pass `--force-process-config` to node-gyp
to work around configuration errors.

## How to Use

To compile your native addon first go to its root directory:

``` bash
cd my_node_addon
```

The next step is to generate the appropriate project build files for the current
platform. Use `configure` for that:

``` bash
node-gyp configure
```

Auto-detection fails for Visual C++ Build Tools 2015, so `--msvs_version=2015`
needs to be added (not needed when run by npm as configured above):
``` bash
node-gyp configure --msvs_version=2015
```

__Note__: The `configure` step looks for a `binding.gyp` file in the current
directory to process. See below for instructions on creating a `binding.gyp` file.

Now you will have either a `Makefile` (on Unix platforms) or a `vcxproj` file
(on Windows) in the `build/` directory. Next, invoke the `build` command:

``` bash
node-gyp build
```

Now you have your compiled `.node` bindings file! The compiled bindings end up
in `build/Debug/` or `build/Release/`, depending on the build mode. At this point,
you can require the `.node` file with Node.js and run your tests!

__Note:__ To create a _Debug_ build of the bindings file, pass the `--debug` (or
`-d`) switch when running either the `configure`, `build` or `rebuild` commands.

## The `binding.gyp` file

A `binding.gyp` file describes the configuration to build your module, in a
JSON-like format. This file gets placed in the root of your package, alongside
`package.json`.

A barebones `gyp` file appropriate for building a Node.js addon could look like:

```python
{
  "targets": [
    {
      "target_name": "binding",
      "sources": [ "src/binding.cc" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Further reading

The **[docs](./docs/)** directory contains additional documentation on specific node-gyp topics that may be useful if you are experiencing problems installing or building addons using node-gyp.

Some additional resources for Node.js native addons and writing `gyp` configuration files:

 * ["Going Native" a nodeschool.io tutorial](http://nodeschool.io/#goingnative)
 * ["Hello World" node addon example](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/test/addons/hello-world)
 * [gyp user documentation](https://gyp.gsrc.io/docs/UserDocumentation.md)
 * [gyp input format reference](https://gyp.gsrc.io/docs/InputFormatReference.md)
 * [*"binding.gyp" files out in the wild* wiki page](./docs/binding.gyp-files-in-the-wild.md)

## Commands

`node-gyp` responds to the following commands:

| **Command**   | **Description**
|:--------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------
| `help`        | Shows the help dialog
| `build`       | Invokes `make`/`msbuild.exe` and builds the native addon
| `clean`       | Removes the `build` directory if it exists
| `configure`   | Generates project build files for the current platform
| `rebuild`     | Runs `clean`, `configure` and `build` all in a row
| `install`     | Installs Node.js header files for the given version
| `list`        | Lists the currently installed Node.js header versions
| `remove`      | Removes the Node.js header files for the given version


## Command Options

`node-gyp` accepts the following command options:

| **Command**                       | **Description**
|:----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------
| `-j n`, `--jobs n`                | Run `make` in parallel. The value `max` will use all available CPU cores
| `--target=v6.2.1`                 | Node.js version to build for (default is `process.version`)
| `--silly`, `--loglevel=silly`     | Log all progress to console
| `--verbose`, `--loglevel=verbose` | Log most progress to console
| `--silent`, `--loglevel=silent`   | Don't log anything to console
| `debug`, `--debug`                | Make Debug build (default is `Release`)
| `--release`, `--no-debug`         | Make Release build
| `-C $dir`, `--directory=$dir`     | Run command in different directory
| `--make=$make`                    | Override `make` command (e.g. `gmake`)
| `--thin=yes`                      | Enable thin static libraries
| `--arch=$arch`                    | Set target architecture (e.g. ia32)
| `--tarball=$path`                 | Get headers from a local tarball
| `--devdir=$path`                  | SDK download directory (default is OS cache directory)
| `--ensure`                        | Don't reinstall headers if already present
| `--dist-url=$url`                 | Download header tarball from custom URL
| `--proxy=$url`                    | Set HTTP(S) proxy for downloading header tarball
| `--noproxy=$urls`                 | Set urls to ignore proxies when downloading header tarball
| `--cafile=$cafile`                | Override default CA chain (to download tarball)
| `--nodedir=$path`                 | Set the path to the node source code
| `--python=$path`                  | Set path to the Python binary
| `--msvs_version=$version`         | Set Visual Studio version (Windows only)
| `--solution=$solution`            | Set Visual Studio Solution version (Windows only)
| `--force-process-config`          | Force using runtime's `process.config` object to generate `config.gypi` file

## Configuration

### Environment variables

Use the form `npm_config_OPTION_NAME` for any of the command options listed
above (dashes in option names should be replaced by underscores).

For example, to set `devdir` equal to `/tmp/.gyp`, you would:

Run this on Unix:

```bash
export npm_config_devdir=/tmp/.gyp
```

Or this on Windows:

```console
set npm_config_devdir=c:\temp\.gyp
```

### `npm` configuration for npm versions before v9

Use the form `OPTION_NAME` for any of the command options listed above.

For example, to set `devdir` equal to `/tmp/.gyp`, you would run:

```bash
npm config set [--global] devdir /tmp/.gyp
```

**Note:** Configuration set via `npm` will only be used when `node-gyp`
is run via `npm`, not when `node-gyp` is run directly.

## License

`node-gyp` is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE
file](LICENSE) for details.
